.\" Man page for the abendrot CLI.
.\" Render locally with:  man ./docs/abendrot.1   (or: groff -man -Tascii docs/abendrot.1)
.TH ABENDROT 1 "June 20, 2026" "abendrot 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
abendrot \- control the Abendrot screen-warmth app from the terminal or an AI assistant
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B abendrot
.I subcommand
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B abendrot status
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot get
.I key
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot on
|
.B off
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot set warmth
.RI [ strength ]
.RB [ \-\-kelvin
.IR kelvin ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot set mode
.I mode
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot set max-warmth
.I kelvin
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot set reveal-mode
.I mode
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot set location
.RI [ latitude ]
.RI [ longitude ]
.RB [ \-\-auto ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot exclude add
|
.B remove
.I bundle-id
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot exclude list
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot reveal
.RB [ \-\-hold
.IR seconds ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.br
.B abendrot
.RB [ \-\-version "] [" \-h | \-\-help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B abendrot
is a thin, same-user command-line client for the Abendrot macOS menu-bar app, which
warms the screen's color temperature on every display. It is intended for use from a
shell or by an AI assistant (Claude Code, Codex, Cursor).
.PP
A setting command does two things: it writes the new value to the app's CFPreferences
domain
.B app.abendrot.Abendrot
(so the value survives an app restart), and it posts a local distributed notification that
wakes the running app so the change applies immediately. The app writes a snapshot file that
records the request id of the command it applied; the CLI polls that snapshot to confirm the
change landed.
.B status
reads that same snapshot.
.PP
There is no daemon, socket, XPC service, network listener, or privileged helper. The control
surface is scoped to the same macOS user, the local login session, and the app's visual state
only.
.PP
Every data-emitting command accepts
.B \-\-json
for machine-readable output.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B status \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Show live app state: enabled, schedule mode, warmth (strength and approximate Kelvin),
reveal mode, the per-app exclusion list, and the per-display method in use. When the app is
not running, the last-saved (persisted) values are shown instead.
.TP
.B get \fIkey\fR \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Print one configured setting.
.I key
is one of
.BR warmth ", " mode ", " max-warmth ", " reveal-mode ", " location ", " enabled .
Reads the preference domain directly, so it works whether or not the app is running.
.TP
.B on \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Enable warming (the master toggle, \fBisEnabled\fR = true).
.TP
.B off \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Disable warming (\fBisEnabled\fR = false).
.TP
.B set warmth \fR[\fIstrength\fR] [\fB\-\-kelvin\fR \fIkelvin\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR]
Set global warmth. Provide a
.I strength
of
.BR 0.0 \(en 1.0
(0 = none, 1 = warmest), or use
.B \-\-kelvin
to target an effective Kelvin of
.BR 500 \(en 6500 ,
which is mapped to a strength against the configured warmest-point curve. Provide one or the
other, not both. Out-of-range values are rejected (exit 2), not clamped.
.TP
.B set mode \fImode\fR \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Set the schedule mode:
.BR sunset " (warm on local sunset), " always-on " (warm continuously), or " off .
.TP
.B set max-warmth \fIkelvin\fR \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Set the warmest-point ceiling in Kelvin
.RB ( 500 \(en 6500 ;
a lower number is warmer).
.TP
.B set reveal-mode \fImode\fR \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Set the reveal behaviour:
.BR hold " or " toggle .
.TP
.B set location \fR[\fIlatitude\fR] [\fIlongitude\fR] [\fB\-\-auto\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR]
Set a manual coordinate for the sunset schedule
.RI ( latitude
.BR \-90 \(en90 ,
.I longitude
.BR \-180 \(en180 ),
or pass
.B \-\-auto
to clear the manual coordinate and derive sunset from the system time zone.
.TP
.B exclude add \fIbundle-id\fR \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Add a bundle id (e.g.\&
.BR com.apple.dt.Xcode )
to the warmth-exclusion set.
.TP
.B exclude remove \fIbundle-id\fR \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
Remove a bundle id from the exclusion set.
.TP
.B exclude list \fR[\fB\-\-json\fR]
List excluded bundle ids (one per line, or
.B (none)
when empty).
.TP
.B reveal \fR[\fB\-\-hold\fR \fIseconds\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR]
Momentary true-color peek: temporarily drop warmth to reveal real colors. This is live-only
\(em it requires a running app and writes no persisted setting. Default hold is 3 seconds. If
the app is not running, exits 3.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the CLI version.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage. Use
.B abendrot help \fIsubcommand\fR
for detailed help on a subcommand.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON. Accepted by every data-emitting command. A setting command
prints an object of the form
.BR {\(dqok\(dq:true,\(dqappliedLive\(dq:true,\(dqpersisted\(dq:true} .
.TP
.B \-\-kelvin \fIkelvin\fR
For
.BR "set warmth" :
target an effective Kelvin
.RB ( 500 \(en 6500 )
instead of a strength.
.TP
.B \-\-auto
For
.BR "set location" :
clear the manual coordinate.
.TP
.B \-\-hold \fIseconds\fR
For
.BR reveal :
hold the reveal for N seconds (default 3).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success. For a
.B set
issued while the app is closed, this still means the value was persisted (it applies on next
launch); the CLI prints
.B saved; app not running
to standard error and reports
.B \(dqappliedLive\(dq:false
under
.BR \-\-json .
.TP
.B 2
Bad input \(em an invalid value or an unknown key (a message is printed to standard error).
.TP
.B 3
The app is not running, or did not confirm in time, for a command that requires it
.RB ( reveal ).
.TP
.B 4
Live-apply timeout \(em a
.B set
persisted successfully and the app was running, but it did not confirm the live apply within
the timeout. The value is saved; it just was not confirmed live.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application Support/Abendrot/state.json
The live snapshot the app writes on every state change and after every accepted command; the
CLI reads it for
.B status
and to confirm its own changes.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Preferences/app.abendrot.Abendrot.plist
The app's CFPreferences domain
.RB ( app.abendrot.Abendrot )
where settings persist. The CLI writes the keys
.BR isEnabled ", " globalWarmthStrength ", " warmestPointKelvin ", " scheduleMode ", "
.BR revealMode ", " excludedApps ", " userLatitude ", and " userLongitude .
.SH EXAMPLES
Set warmth to 80% and confirm it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
abendrot set warmth 0.8
abendrot status --json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Target a specific color temperature:
.PP
.RS
.nf
abendrot set warmth --kelvin 3000
.fi
.RE
.PP
Switch to the sunset schedule and raise the warmest point:
.PP
.RS
.nf
abendrot set mode sunset
abendrot set max-warmth 1900
.fi
.RE
.PP
Exclude a color-critical app from warming, then list exclusions:
.PP
.RS
.nf
abendrot exclude add com.apple.dt.Xcode
abendrot exclude list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Briefly reveal true colors for 10 seconds (requires the running app):
.PP
.RS
.nf
abendrot reveal --hold 10
.fi
.RE
.SH SECURITY
The control surface is scoped to the same macOS user, the local login session, and the app's
visual state only. Any process running as the same user that can run
.B abendrot
(or write the preference plist) can change warmth, toggle warming, or trigger reveal. There is
no network listener, socket, LaunchDaemon, privileged helper, or cross-user delivery. The app
validates every command exactly as it validates user-interface input.
.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B AGENTS.md
document that ships with Abendrot is the canonical, agent-facing reference for this CLI,
including the full
.B status --json
field reference and a raw
.B defaults
fallback. Project homepage:
.BR https://abendrot.app/ .
